# Q1:  The Big O Notation

The Big O notation is a mathematical concept that describes the upper bound (worst case scenario) of an algorithm as 
the input size increase in terms of time and space complexities. in simple terms basically means how fast or slow an 
algorithm is as the amount of data grows. 

# Key Rules with their examples 

1. Ignoring the Constants/Coefficients and lower-Order terms:
   > The Big O focuses on the important term while ignoring the constants/coefficients and lower-Order terms since 
     they are irrelevant.

   > For Example:
      0(5n) = (On)
      0(100n) = (On)
     The above explains that even though the coefficients (5,100) affects the runtime, it does not affect the growth 
     as 'n' gets very large.


2. Focusing on the Dominant Term:
   > When an algorithm includes multiple terms, only the term with the highest growth rate is considered because it 
     affects perfomance as 'n' increases.

   > For Example:
     0(n² + n) = 0(n²) - this is because 'n²' grows faster than 'n'.
     0(2n² + n² + n) = 0(2n²) - this is because '2n²' grows faster than 'n²' and 'n'.

3. Consecutive Operations are added:
   > Big O notation basically describes that when multiple operations run sequentially, then their complexities 
     are added, but we still focus on the most dominant term.
   > For Example:
     O(n) + O(2n²) → O(2n²)
     O(n) + O(log n) → O(n)
     The above explains that the term with the hughest growth rate determines the final complexity.

4. Worst-Case Scenario:
   > The Big O Notation typically analyses the upper bound or what is known as the worst case scenario, assuming 
     that the algorithm perfoms at its least efficient state meaning that we can account for the maximum possible
     time or space an algorithm may require.
   > For Example:
     In a linear search, if the targeted element is not in the list at all or is at the last position, the algorithm 
     will ensure that it checks each and every element which will typically represent the worst case complexity of 0(n). 

5. Nested Operations Multiply:
   > The Big O Notation describes that if an algorithm has nested operations, the total time complexity will be the 
     product of the complexities of each step.
   > For Example:
     O(n) * O(n) = O(n²) - this explains that if one loop runs 0(n) times and another independent loop inside it runs
                           0(n) times, the total complexity is 0(n²)
     O(n) * O(log n) = O(n log n) - If an operation inside an O(n) loop runs in O(log n) time, the total complexity 
                                    is O(n log n).
