# Q2. Difference Between Arrays and Linked Lists.

# 1.Memory Allocation;

Arrays
> Data elements stored in contiguous memory locations.
  e.g <ins> **contiguous memory** </ins>

> This means that the elements of the array are stored next to each other in a single, uninterrupted sequence in memory. 
> Arrays require a fixed size to be defined upfront (e.g. int array[10]). 
  This fixed allocation can lead to memory wastage if the reserved space is not fully used.

Linked List
> Data elements are stored dynamically / non-contiguously
  e.g <ins> **dynamically and non contiguously** </ins>
> For each node is allocated at runtime as needed, allowing for efficient use of memory without predefined limits. 
> Nodes are connected by the use of pointers. This flexibility reduces memory waste since the linked list can grow or 
  shrink based on actual requirements, making it a better choice when memory needs are not known.

# 2.Performance;

Arrays
> Provide constant time complexity O(1) for accessing elements by their index.

Linked Lists
> Provide linear time complexities O(n) in order to access elements. 
  Hence meaning that you have to traverse through each node one by one from the head or tail in doubly linked lists 
  in order to access the node that you want.

# 3.Insertion and Deletion Operations;

Arrays
> Inserting an element at the beginning or middle requires all subsequent elements to shift inorder to make space
  and this results in a O(n) worst case complexity.
> Deletion also results in a O(n) linear complexity as the remaining elements must shift inorder to fill the gap left.

Linked lists
> If you have a pointer to the insertion point, it results in a O(1) constant complexity whilst if you don't have a 
  pointer, finding the insertion point takes O(n).
> Deletion also results in a O(n) constant complexity if you have a pointer reference to the node that is to be 
  deleted. Otherwise, finding the node to delete takes O(n).


